# Leptos Starter Template

This is a template demonstrating how to integrate [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) with the [Leptos](https://github.com/leptos-rs/leptos) web framework and the [cargo-leptos](https://github.com/akesson/cargo-leptos) tool.

If you don't have `cargo-leptos` installed you can install it with

`cargo install --locked cargo-leptos`

Then run

`npx tailwindcss -i ./input.css -o ./style/output.css --watch`

and

`cargo leptos watch`

in this directory.

Open browser on [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)

You can begin editing your app at `src/app.rs`.

## Installing Tailwind

You can install Tailwind using `npm`:

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss
```

If you'd rather not use `npm`, you can install the Tailwind binary [here](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/releases).

## Setting up with VS Code and Additional Tools

If you're using VS Code, add the following to your `settings.json`

```json
  "emmet.includeLanguages": {
    "rust": "html",
    "*.rs": "html"
  },
  "tailwindCSS.includeLanguages": {
      "rust": "html",
      "*.rs": "html"
  },
  "files.associations": {
      "*.rs": "rust"
  },
  "editor.quickSuggestions": {
    "other": "on",
    "comments": "on",
    "strings": true
  },
  "css.validate": false,
```

Install [Tailwind CSS Intellisense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss).

    Install "VS Browser" extension, a browser at the right window.
    Allow vscode Ports forward: 3000, 3001.

## Notes about Tooling

By default, `cargo-leptos` uses `nightly` Rust, `cargo-generate`, and `sass`. If you run into any trouble, you may need to install one or more of these tools.

1. `rustup toolchain install nightly --allow-downgrade` - make sure you have Rust nightly
2. `rustup default nightly` - setup nightly as default, or you can use rust-toolchain file later on
3. `rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown` - add the ability to compile Rust to WebAssembly
4. `cargo install cargo-generate` - install `cargo-generate` binary (should be installed automatically in future)
5. `npm install -g sass` - install `dart-sass` (should be optional in future

## Alternatives to cargo-leptos

This crate can be run without `cargo-leptos`, using `wasm-pack` and `cargo`. To do so, you'll need to install some other tools.
0. `cargo install wasm-pack`
1. Edit the `[package.metadata.leptos]` section and set `site-root` to `"."`. You'll also want to change the path of the `<StyleSheet / >` component in the root component to point towards the CSS file in the root. This tells leptos that the WASM/JS files generated by wasm-pack are available at `./pkg` and that the CSS files are no longer processed by cargo-leptos. Building to alternative folders is not supported at this time. You'll also want to edit the call to `get_configuration()` to pass in `Some(Cargo.toml)`, so that Leptos will read the settings instead of cargo-leptos. If you do so, your file/folder names cannot include dashes.

### Server Side Rendering With Hydration

To run it as a server side app with hydration, first you should run

```bash
wasm-pack build --target=web --no-default-features --features=hydrate
```

to generate the WebAssembly to hydrate the HTML delivered from the server.

Then run the server with `cargo run` to serve the server side rendered HTML and the WASM bundle for hydration.

```bash
cargo run --no-default-features --features=ssr
```

> Note that if your hydration code changes, you will have to rerun the wasm-pack command above before running
> `cargo run`

### Client Side Rendering

You'll need to install trunk to client side render this bundle.

1. `cargo install trunk`
   Then the site can be served with `trunk serve --open`

## Attribution

Many thanks to GreatGreg for putting together this guide. You can find the original, with added details, [here](https://github.com/leptos-rs/leptos/discussions/125).

## Playwright Testing

- Run `cargo make setup` to install dependencies
- Run `cargo leptos test` or `cargo leptos end-to-end` to run the tests
