# The `<A/>` Component

Client-side navigation works perfectly fine with ordinary HTML `<a>` elements. The router adds a listener that handles every click on a `<a>` element and tries to handle it on the client side, i.e., without doing another round trip to the server to request HTML. This is what enables the snappy “single-page app” navigations you’re probably familiar with from most modern web apps.

The router will bail out of handling an `<a>` click under a number of situations

- the click event has had `prevent_default()` called on it
- the <kbd>Meta</kbd>, <kbd>Alt</kbd>, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>, or <kbd>Shift</kbd> keys were held during click
- the `<a>` has a `target` or `download` attribute, or `rel="external"`
- the link has a different origin from the current location

In other words, the router will only try to do a client-side navigation when it’s pretty sure it can handle it, and it will upgrade every `<a>` element to get this special behavior.

The router also provides an [`<A>`](https://docs.rs/leptos_router/latest/leptos_router/fn.A.html) component, which does two additional things:

1. Correctly resolves relative nested routes. Relative routing with ordinary `<a>` tags can be tricky. For example, if you have a route like `/post/:id`, `<A href="1">` will generate the correct relative route, but `<a href="1">` likely will not (depending on where it appears in your view.) `<A/>` resolves routes relative to the path of the nested route within which it appears.
2. Sets the `aria-current` attribute to `page` if this link is the active link (i.e., it’s a link to the page you’re on). This is helpful for accessibility and for styling. For example, if you want to set the link a different color if it’s a link to the page you’re currently on, you can match this attribute with a CSS selector.

> Once again, this is the same example. Check out the relative `<A/>` components, and take a look at the CSS in `index.html` to see the ARIA-based styling.

[Click to open CodeSandbox.](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/16-router-fy4tjv?file=%2Fsrc%2Fmain.rs&selection=%5B%7B%22endColumn%22%3A1%2C%22endLineNumber%22%3A3%2C%22startColumn%22%3A1%2C%22startLineNumber%22%3A3%7D%5D)

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/16-router-fy4tjv?file=%2Fsrc%2Fmain.rs&selection=%5B%7B%22endColumn%22%3A1%2C%22endLineNumber%22%3A3%2C%22startColumn%22%3A1%2C%22startLineNumber%22%3A3%7D%5D" width="100%" height="1000px" style="max-height: 100vh"></iframe>
